This time, we're baking biscuits…
-Close one eye.
-…with a Signature bake…
-Oi!
-…that not everyone's cut out for.
-A Technical challenge…
-Lord have mercy.
…that should be an all-time classic.
That's all right, innit?
-But time is the theme…
-Please don't break.
-…and the problem…
-It's like it's condemned.
…in a spectacular Showstopper.
I've never seen anyone
quite like that before.
Oh, don't!
Eleven bakers remaining…
Last week, er,
Paul did spit out some of my cake.
This week, I hope he actually
swallows it and enjoys it.
-Good luck.
-To you too.
But who will be crowned
Biscuit Week's Star Baker?
I've got a go-to biscuit.
Always involves chocolate and orange.
And who will leave
the Baking Show tent?
-Are you a dunker?
-Yeah, big time.
Sometimes, I do leave it in
a wee bit too long.
Am I looking forward to today?
I think I am.
Excited, but very nervous again.
How do you approach a difficult challenge?
Have a little dance.
Hello, bakers. Welcome back to the tent.
It's Biscuit Week.
What's your favourite biscuit, Noel?
Well, not many people know this about me,
but at midnight, I like to get naked,
glue feathers onto myself,
and put Party Rings in my eyes
and pretend to be an owl.
Nice.
No, Party Rings. I hate Nice.
For today's Signature challenge,
the judges would like you to bake
12 slice-and-bake biscuits.
You'll be doing this
by shaping the dough into an oblong
so that when you slice into it,
it reveals a picture or a design.
You have two hours.
On your marks.
-Get set.
-Bake.
Right.
Biscuit time. Whoa.
Let's hope it will be tasty,
especially after last week.
Little bit nervous. Drama queen. Ah!
I'm not gonna worry today.
No worries. Uh-uh. Oh, no.
Today's Signature challenge
is a slice-and-bake biscuit.
Normally, when you make a biscuit,
you make your paste which you roll up,
pop in the fridge to chill,
slice, and then bake it.
But the difference is,
we want them to hide a big design inside.
But we don't want a simple pattern
like a chequerboard.
We want a picture.
So the shaping is going to be difficult
because the bakers
really have to think ahead.
You're making something
which will only show up as the picture
when you slice it.
They'll have to make
lots of different colours
and think in a 3-D way,
and that is extremely difficult to do.
But this biscuit has another problem.
It needs to have a snap.
But once you add colour to a biscuit,
it's difficult to know when it's baked.
They won't want it to be in there too long
because they don't want it to go brown.
That'll spoil their pattern.
If they go too far
and try to impress us too much,
they'll run out of time.
You may lose the overall pattern,
and you may start panicking,
underbake it, overbake it.
Keep it simple
and make sure the bake is correct.
Pui Man. Good morning.
-Hello, good morning.
-Pui Man.
Tell us all about your biscuit.
I'm doing the Year of the Ox.
-Ox.
-Because I was born in the Year of the Ox.
So it's quite intricate.
Have you managed to do it in the time?
No.
Never.
Baking isn't quite enough
to satisfy Pui Man's creative urge.
She also paints rocks
to decorate her garden and local area.
Stone village.
Her intricate almond and ginger biscuit ox
will be complete with ears and horns.
You paint rocks and then leave them
in the forest for people to find?
Yeah, make someone happy
when they pick up the rock in the forest.
Without my name.
Do you tell anyone?
Not really. But when I go back, it's gone.
Okay, let's leave that chat there.
Spices. Here we go.
Tom has also looked east for inspiration.
I am making the Hagia Sophia,
which is the mosque in Istanbul.
It's the most incredible building
I've ever been in.
When Tom isn't holidaying
with his friends,
he's competing with them.
Oh, yeah, baby!
Oosh!
His Hagia Sophia biscuits
will feature Turkish spices
balanced with a sharp lemon filling.
How you doing, Tom?
-Week two, well done. Congratulations.
-Week two, we made it.
Honestly, after the Technical last week,
it does feel like it.
-Shall I be honest with you?
-Yeah.
I think you should've had a handshake.
Stop it. For the Showstopper?
I felt like he messed up there.
Just saying.
-How much do you want that handshake?
-Do you know what?
-That Paul handy.
-Saying that you're getting it?
Be amazing, wouldn't it?
Tom's mosque will require
30 precisely measured sections of dough.
Have I got all the colours?
One, two, three, four, five.
And whilst all the bakers
will have to create multiple colours
to build a design
that will reveal a picture when sliced…
It's so blue.
…flavour could prove even more important
than how it looks.
Ooh. That's nice.
Features that Nadia is hoping to combine.
I am making a shape of an avocado.
And I'm flavouring it with matcha.
Are you using colouring or just matcha?
Just matcha.
-How much matcha are you putting in?
-Not that much.
Nadia often relies
on old family recipes in the kitchen.
-I think nonno's pasta is better.
-Nonno's is better?
Her amma's love
of avocados on toast
has inspired
her chocolate and matcha biscuits.
-He doesn't like matcha.
-Doesn't he? Oh.
-No, he hates it.
-Does he? Oh, well.
Yeah, it's like his kryptonite.
Have you practised this?
Yeah. If my kids see
one more avocado biscuit,
they're gonna throw it at me.
I've been hiding them
in my kids' packed lunches and everything.
They're like that…
-Once their dough is coloured…
-This the tricky bit.
…the bakers' designs can only be created
by cutting and shaping
multiple building blocks.
Three mil. 6.4 wide.
I do it by eye.
Don't have time to measure it.
And whilst Tom is having to use
custom-made templates…
Got good depth.
…Aaron has also come prepared.
I'm using the extruder to get the tongue.
The actual design is like a baby's face.
Aaron lives in London
with his boyfriend Anthony.
Cheers.
They've recently celebrated the arrival
of their best friend Latifa's baby girl.
And Winnie will be immortalised
in a tonka and malted milk biscuit
dipped in milk chocolate.
Just putting the glint
in an innocent child's eye.
Before they realise,
working full time, paying bills.
Bakers, you are halfway through.
-What?
-You've got one hour left.
If I can't finish in time,
it will be a cow.
Remember, not about the baking,
it's about the vibes.
Who is that?
I'm gonna start the assembly.
The bakers are now building blind.
I start from the inside first
and then build it up.
This the nose.
They won't know if they've
constructed their designs correctly…
-25 mil.
-…until they slice them.
I've never done anything like this before.
It was such a wacky challenge.
-But that's not their only worry.
-This has gotta get in the freezer.
-As soon as they begin building…
-So sticky.
…the heat from their hands
will begin melting their dough.
It's like trying to handle
cooked spaghetti.
Slide this in the freezer.
And whilst Tom, Aaron and Pui Man
are building just millimetres at a time…
These are the cheeks.
So I press it 45 degree.
…even the simpler designs
are a struggle to build.
'Cause this is heavy,
it's making the bottom a bit flat,
so then I need to curve it again
with my fingers.
-Morning, Nataliia.
-Hello. Hi.
Star Baker.
Oh, yes. Thank you so much for that.
Tell us all about your biscuit.
So my… biscuit is inspired
by the flag of Yorkshire,
where I am now live.
-You live in Yorkshire?
-Yes.
It's a shame, actually,
'cause I'm from sort of
the Lancashire side.
Yeah.
To support her new life in Yorkshire,
Ukrainian-born Nataliia
is training to be an accountant.
Thank you, baby. So helpful.
She's hoping
her almond-flavoured white rose tribute
to her adopted home
will help her retain the Star Baker crown.
What's "Star Baker" in Ukrainian?
Zirka.
-Ah, zirka.
-Zirka.
-Okay.
When I was making these at home,
my boyfriend was like,
"Is it the Millennium Falcon?"
And I was like, "Well, obviously no",
but maybe I'll say
these were going to be boats,
but now they're the Millennium Falcon.
Jasmine is a keen wild swimmer.
-And her love of the water…
-Whoo.
…has inspired spiced orange biscuit boats.
I need to get them
in the freezer in five minutes' time,
so we're up against it.
-But Jasmine's boats…
-Go faster. Right.
…aren't the only design
already on their way to the freezer.
What's it look like?
You haven't got any idea, have you?
It's a carrot! It's a carrot.
It's an orange.
It's an orange?
Well, you know, I was close.
Wine o'clock. Wine o'clock.
Leighton gets all his bakes
taste-tested by his best friend, Audrey.
Mm, they're nice.
Think your baking's improved.
Oh.
She's approved his orange slice biscuits
with a chocolate orange ganache dip.
Are you all right? Not too stressed?
You seem a bit like…
Shall we dance? Come on, let's dance.
-Where shall we…
-Let's get rid of the stress.
-Just chill out.
-It's all right for you to say that.
You know I've done this show.
-I know.
-I've been in this stress.
But I know where the door on the oven is.
There goes the last layer.
Whilst the simpler designs
are ready to chill…
Looks very strange, doesn't it?
Ooh.
…those planning to impress the judges
with something more complex…
I've got five minutes to assemble it,
ten minutes to chill it again.
…could be starting to regret it.
This is so fiddly.
I need to start building now,
otherwise I won't have time.
I will have to build the ear
and horn separately.
Now I'm just doing the bits of the face.
On my first practice,
my boyfriend actually said
they look like Edvard Munch's The Scream.
They look pretty scary.
To complete the face on his design,
Toby has come up with a shortcut.
You just start with the main features,
and then let this dough get quite soft.
Doesn't look pretty
but you just kind of like slop it in.
Like filling holes in your house.
Toby and his girlfriend, Syd,
have recently bought their first home,
which they share
with their rescue dog, Bex.
Leave it.
Okay. Good girl.
He'll attempt to build
banana and peanut-flavoured Bex biscuits.
The slopping-it method
doesn't feel like you should be doing it
to something you're gonna serve
Prue and Paul, to be honest.
One baker plans to serve Prue and Paul
the most important meal of the day.
I'm making eggs and bacon on toast.
Erm, so we've got the yolk, the white,
the bacon, the bread.
Do you think you've been a bit mean
with the bacon?
-Look after your cholesterol, Prue.
-I see.
Jessika works
as a healthcare systems designer
and works out every weekend
at her local skate park.
Oh!
She's flavouring her breakfast biscuits
with another of her guilty pleasures,
cherry Bakewell.
Who do you fear?
Who do you think's really good?
Tom?
-Everyone is.
-You fear everyone.
-That's why last week, I was like this.
-Really?
Surely not Pui Man?
She paints pictures on rocks
and then puts them in the forest
and doesn't tell anyone.
-That's so nice.
-Yeah.
I need to put it back in the freezer.
These need to get chilled quite heavily
before you slice them
because if it's too soft,
it will collapse under its own weight.
Will I have time to do the horn?
What am I doing? Come on.
I still haven't freeze it.
How long is your thing in the freezer?
Fifteen minutes.
But some bakers…
…can't just chill.
Cream cheese icing time.
Banana cream cheese icing time.
I'm just melting some chocolate
for the back of them.
This is my whipped orange ganache.
You can't go wrong
with chocolate orange, though, can you?
-Wanna taste it?
-No, I'm all right.
I had too much in week one.
Coming to help?
Away from hairdressing and baking,
Lesley's passions are her garden…
You're gonna get wet.
…and her dogs, Norman and Marley.
Bonkers dog.
But it's her love of cupcakes
that's inspired her whipped chocolate
ganache-filled orange cupcake biscuits.
What's this about you
being able to do a Brummie accent then?
'Cause my partner's mum and dad
are from Kingstanding.
-That's where I'm from.
-Is it?
-All right?
-No, but are you all right, babs?
I'm all right. I'm fine.
So I'm making mincemeat
and then infusing that
into a white chocolate ganache.
So this is going to be modelled
after my cat.
Last Christmas, he stole a mince pie
straight out my hand.
Rescue cat Victor lives in Belfast
with Iain and his girlfriend Dervla.
He is really living up
to the black cat reputation.
His mince pie crime will be recorded
in a spiced orange biscuit
filled with mincemeat ganache.
I want him to be shamed publicly on TV.
Erm…
Look straight into the camera
and tell him.
Victor, you've been out of order,
and now we're gonna shame you.
Imagine shaming a cat.
What time are we on?
Forty-five minutes remaining.
Now it's a balancing act
of letting it chill long enough
that you can slice it neatly.
But I'm worried about baking time.
I'm so worried about this.
Take the dough out of the freezer too soon
and their design could collapse when cut.
Now I do the ears in fondant. And horn.
It's a last-minute plan.
But left too long,
and there won't be enough remaining time
to bake and deliver the snap
the judges have demanded.
-Lot of waiting around.
-I'm just waiting.
-Stop looking at other people.
-No, I know!
You're constantly looking at other people.
-You know what you're doing.
-Five minutes.
It's the moment of truth.
Cue portentous music.
I need to do this in five minutes.
Upside down, they could be an ice cream.
Hopefully.
It's a dental floss.
If I use the knife,
it would make it uncircular.
Just a bit squishy.
I'm not cutting them very, very thick
because I still want them
to have cocoa dough seeds.
-Are you going in yet?
-No. How long have we got left?
You have half an hour left.
Are you messing?
No pressure.
-They look like cupcakes-ish.
-I'm gonna put them in.
Hopefully, we'll have
enough time to finish these.
Whilst everyone else is baking or slicing…
Eggs and bakey.
Not long enough.
…Pui Man, Tom and Aaron
are still chilling their biscuit dough.
Oven is on, the oven is ready,
the oven is primed.
Look at his wee face!
Woo-hoo. Good luck, girls.
She's alive.
I mean, it looks about as close to Bex
as a biscuit can.
Bit nervous about this now.
Wee Victor.
Pray for me.
Trust the process. Trust the timing.
Oh, got holes. Doesn't look like an ox.
It's quite an abstract ox.
It look like cow.
It's okay,
it's what it needed to look like.
Spitting image of Winnie.
Literally like she's here with me now.
Doosh, doosh, doosh, doosh.
Oh, it's not even.
I just don't want them to brown too much.
Such a fine line
between overbaked and underbaked.
Whoa.
Oh, this one looks a…
-It's winking.
-She's lost an eye.
Imagine, like, a little bit of black hair.
It looks a little bit like Noel.
I'm not even joking. It's so good.
Can we actually cook this?
-Give me that.
-You wanna cook… All right then.
I'm gonna cook this.
-Can we put it in the…
-And I'm gonna…
Look at the resemblance. Close one eye.
They're not quite crispy enough.
Get them in the oven!
My God.
-It's taking a bit of time.
-Hurry up.
I've pushed it up a bit.
How many times we got?
You've got 15 minutes left.
-They won't have the best snap.
-I'm praying.
Thank you so much.
If I take them out too soon,
'cause of the amount of butter
in the dough, they'll be soft.
Scared. I'm scared.
If I leave them in too long,
'cause of the amount of sugar,
they will be too hard.
Oi!
What do I want to do?
How many minutes left?
You've only got five minutes left.
They're just gonna have to come out.
Right. Here we come.
I hope it's done.
Oh, no. It won't stick.
I'm just dipping my biscuits.
How much time do we have?
Bakers, you only have one minute left.
It'll be all right.
The ear and horns look really silly.
-Do you want a hand?
-Yeah, put…
Just dip and then
just slide them up on there.
Bakers, your time is up.
Please step away
from those juicy biscuits.
I hope they're not juicy.
Something would have gone wrong.
They look gorgeous.
You know what, darling?
They are what they are.
-They look so good.
-Thanks.
I think they look like pig now.
Does Noel count?
Ow, Noel's hot.
It's judgement time for the
bakers' Signature slice-and-bake biscuits.
-Hi, Nadia.
-Hiya.
Very clever.
-I think they look better on the back.
-On the other side.
You've managed to get
quite a few layers coming into that.
They're made with matcha and chocolate.
Could've done with longer in the oven.
Because you've got such a thick middle.
-Yeah.
-Definitely underbaked.
And I don't think the flavour
is quite strong enough.
Prue's right. If you're gonna put
matcha in, then put it in.
-Yeah.
-Regardless of whether we like it or not.
-Looks like a cat.
-She's quite cat-like.
Design is stark.
They are cinnamon honey biscuits
with banana cream cheese frosting
and peanut praline.
-There's a lot going on.
-I find the peanut overwhelming.
Be careful about putting
too many things in there.
Yeah, you're overloading it.
-Okay.
-He's a bit sad, isn't he?
He's an angry boy.
-You've lost a bit of definition.
-A little bit.
These are winter spiced
with mincemeat ganache.
Mm. I love the flavour.
Spice blend is spot on.
Just needed to be sharpened up.
They are beautifully executed.
Really neat.
It's a very simple design,
but so effective.
There's some nutmeg and cinnamon inside
the biscuit and then chocolate ganache
and then the caramel.
The flavours are absolutely delicious.
Needs longer in the oven.
-Okay.
-It's just a little bit underbaked.
It's very detailed
and you've done it really well.
-Thank you.
-I love how neat these are.
It's clever. Really clever.
The filling is a lemon curd,
and the flavour of the biscuit
should be Turkish spices.
It's quite delicately spiced,
but I think it's really delicious.
Curd is beautifully set as well.
It's just the bake is not quite there.
I would have given it
another five minutes.
I think you've managed
the orange beautifully.
These look amazing. Very clever.
It's well baked, great flavour.
I mean, what's not to like
about chocolate and orange?
Doesn't really look like a rose.
-Yes, it is.
-Very almondy.
Flavour of the almond is good.
But they are a bit soft,
which is surprising
'cause they're very thin.
-What is it?
-I have to change plan.
Is it a Pokémon?
This was meant to be an ox, wasn't it?
-Did you just add them?
-Yes.
-Did you just stick that on?
-Yeah, she did.
I think it looks like
some sort of creature.
Yeah.
The ginger, it's really hot.
Your ginger level needs
to come down a little.
Bit soft.
But otherwise, it does look striking.
You just can't identify what it is.
-Okay, thank you.
-It's a biscuit.
It's a biscuit.
-I really like the look of them.
-I do think they're witty.
I've made a almond and cherry biscuit.
The level of almond is beautiful
and the little kick of that cherry,
it's almost quite tart.
But I think, again, almost
everybody's underbaked their biscuits.
Mm-hmm.
-Looks like an ice cream.
-Whatever you want them to be.
Whatever you want them to be.
We have got a sugar biscuit
and a chocolate orange ganache.
All I can taste is chocolate.
You could have done
with less filling and a longer bake.
I quite like the look of them.
They're very cartoony.
I think they're charming and nicely done.
-What's all that in the base?
-Chocolate, but it hasn't set.
It is a baby, and it could be an accident.
Do you know what I mean?
-Yeah, it's--
-And it's very nicely--
Enjoy your biscuit.
They're lovely and thin.
-Lovely snap.
-Nice snap.
They are tonka and malt.
Oh, they're delicious.
And that hint of chocolate,
weirdly, it adds to the malt.
And the layers of flavour come
one after another. It's really lovely.
-Yeah, well done.
-Lovely.
Hold on. Before you go, guys,
is there someone we should be meeting?
There's also Noel.
That's yours.
-I'm gonna take it and give it to him.
-Yeah, give it to him.
-Thanks, Aaron.
They picked up on the chocolate,
but the flavour came through,
so it is what it is.
And it's good.
I think everyone got
the same feedback, "underbaked",
which is good, because I was nervous
they were gonna be overbaked.
It's not too negative,
but it's not quite positive.
Well, I don't think I'm gonna make
the avocado biscuits again.
The bakers have no idea
what biscuit
they'll be asked to bake next.
It's time for your Technical challenge,
and this one has been set by
the Leith-al weapon herself, Prue Leith.
Prue, any words of wisdom?
Use your temperature probe.
Not sure if that's gonna be helpful.
I like the word "probe", though.
As ever, this Technical challenge
will be judged blind,
so we're gonna have to ask the judges
to leave the tent
in a style of their own choosing.
They've opted for the bog standard walk.
I was hoping for a cartwheel.
Prue would like you to bake her take
on the classic chocolate hobnob.
Your hobnobs should be topped
with a thin layer of caramel
and have two different
feathered chocolate designs.
You have two hours
to produce Prue's delicious dunkers.
And I've got two hours
to get over the fact
that Noel keeps using the phrase
"Prue's delicious dunkers".
-On your mark.
-Get set.
Delicious dunkers.
Bake!
Oh.
Hobnobs are my favourite dunker…
Have you noticed with a hobnob
that when you dunk it at least four times,
it's actually drunk your tea
before you've got there?
So I feel it's only right that I should
know how to make one, but I do not.
All the bakers have been
given the same ingredients…
…and Prue's pared-down recipe.
The first step is "Make 12 biscuits".
And the second step is "Bake".
That's it.
This is going to be interesting.
So, Prue. Chocolate hobnobs.
Why did you pick these for the Technical?
Well, I love a hobnob.
I mean, who doesn't?
But you've got the addition
of the caramel.
Just to give them
a bit more of a challenge.
First, they need to make the biscuits,
but they must cut the biscuits
before they bake them.
They're so crumbly,
if you try to cut a sheet of hobnob,
it'll just fall to bits.
-Oh, wow.
-The worst problem
will be too much caramel.
You need just enough
to cover the bottom of the mould.
But that may be more for me than you
'cause you've got a sweeter tooth.
And then they must chill.
If the caramel isn't properly set,
it won't come out.
And then comes the chocolate.
They've got to be ready to go
with the feathering
before the chocolate sets.
-I think this is a tricky challenge.
-Their timing has to be right.
I'm gonna try this.
That's a delicious oaty hobnob, that.
Very thin caramel.
Mm. I'm gonna go for another dunk.
-Can I have a top-up of tea?
-Me too.
So I'm creaming
the butter and sugar together,
then I'm going to put the flour in.
I'm gonna put the golden syrup in now.
Put the oats in, flour in.
Mix, mix, mix, mix.
I've got to make 12,
so I'm gonna roll it out
on some parchment.
Pressing down on this ring mould.
I just want them to be even.
Hopefully, I can get two more out of this.
I'm kind of short right now.
-Hello, Tom.
-Oh, hello.
-How did the judging go? No handshakes?
-Don't think we've seen one yet.
What would you do
if you got a Hollywood handshake?
Who would you phone first?
It'd be my boyfriend to say,
"If it goes any further,
are we okay with it?"
This doesn't look right.
I'm thinking, bake the whole thing first
and then cut,
or mould them with the cutter and bake?
No idea.
Managed to cut out nine.
I'm just re-rolling the scraps
to get the remaining three.
Look all right so far.
It's quite crumbly.
Got a feeling I've done this all wrong.
It's very dry. Doesn't stick together.
You know what?
I'll just bake it like that and then cut.
-No idea how long I'm putting them in for.
-I'm gonna put mine in for 16 minutes.
Twelve minutes?
"Make the caramel."
I'm gonna do a dry caramel.
The risk is you can burn it very easily.
-You just heat up sugar, don't you?
-And then?
Then put one of those
temperature things in.
The only time I've ever used
a temperature probe is when someone's ill.
Why is it not called a thermometer?
-Yeah, a thermometer…
-"Probe" is implying it's gonna…
Whoop! "You're very hot."
Ooh, up the nose.
I wanna take the temperature
of this caramel.
Although, I don't know if she meant
use the probe for the caramel
or for the chocolate.
I don't remember how to make caramel.
I'm guessing.
You shouldn't stir it
until it's caramelised
because the caramelisation
changes the structure
and stops it crystallising.
Stressful this is, isn't it?
-You ever made a hobnob before?
-Never. But I buy them all the time.
-Who do you buy them for then?
-My kids.
-How many kids you got?
-Two.
-Oh, a boy and a girl?
-One girl, one boy.
-Oh, boy and a girl?
-Yeah, boy and girl.
Caramel looks nice. It's very smooth.
This is not right.
I must start again.
Oh, I don't know what happened.
I'll need to do another caramel.
Just a few seconds,
and it goes from caramel to burn.
When it's Biscuit Week,
why is it not the biscuit
that's the hard part?
Bakers, you are halfway through.
You've got one hour left.
My biscuits are awful.
I'm bringing them out. I'm coming out.
Whoa! They have spread like crazy.
They seem okay.
They seem cooked to the right crunch.
I'm gonna have to cut them. Needs must.
I don't have enough.
It's not 12.
How many have you got? Ten. Oh, gosh.
I reckon you could do another two
out of this.
I join them together in the mould,
should be okay.
You need to do something.
"Make the caramel." Done.
"And then spoon some
into the silicon moulds."
"Spoon some." How many is some?
It says, "This makes more than you need",
so it's a bit of a trip-up.
Put too much caramel into their moulds…
She only wants a thin layer.
…and the bakers' hobnobs
will taste of little else.
Doing a random tablespoon.
For some reason, that feels right.
A little bit thick.
I think you're my good luck charm
because this is actually working.
I am actually an angel.
You'll that find out.
You'll go, "Noel was good this year",
and everyone'll go,
"There's no one called Noel.
I don't know what you're talking about."
I think we did it.
I'm pouring this into the mould,
chucking the mould in the freezer.
-How much caramel do you give it?
-Enough that they can taste it.
I'm trying to spread it.
You can't be cheated out of caramel.
What have I done?
Try again, try again, try again.
-Can we get a time check?
-You have half an hour left.
Oh.
So step four is, "Place a biscuit
on top of the caramel".
-I want these to fit in here.
-Get in.
The cutting and stuffing technique
is actually working.
Didn't you win the Technical?
-I won the Technical last week.
-You're a Technical whizz-kid.
Well, I was the Technical whizz-kid once.
They're very crunchy.
A little bit worried.
I'm gonna chill them in the freezer
to firm them up.
Biscuits are in the freezer
with the caramel.
'Cause it is currently 29 degrees
in the tent.
"Coat six of the biscuits
with dark chocolate,
then coat the remaining six biscuits
with caramel chocolate."
-Are you tempering the chocolate?
-Just temper it all, just in case.
Normally with a biscuit,
I wouldn't bother tempering it,
but then I'm like, we're on the Bake Off.
Everyone's got their thermometers out,
so I'm just doing it
to look like I know what I'm doing.
I'm trying to get this
to like 32 degrees-ish.
The caramel looks terrible.
That's all right, innit?
I have never tempered
caramel chocolate before.
I've only heated it lightly,
and it feels extremely stiff.
Oh, God! I don't have enough biscuits.
It's my… Quick, quick, quick!
Go, go, go.
Bakers, you have ten minutes left.
Lord have mercy.
Careful.
My caramel is not set.
I didn't use my probe.
I thought it was
for tempering the chocolate.
Oh, no!
These are not good noises
that I'm hearing from down here.
Nothing to see here, people. Thank you.
Ooh!
What a bloody mess.
They stick together.
It's not set. It won't come out.
I'm going to dip the biscuits upside down
in the chocolate.
Dip and go.
Considering how bad they looked
out of the oven,
I don't feel that awful about them.
I need to put some chocolate on.
Just look a bit too much.
When you feather, the under chocolate
should be slightly melted.
The little lines need to sink into
the main chocolate on top.
Think this is what you do
to make a bit of feathering.
Oh, no. Maybe not.
So beautiful!
I love it. Yeah!
Bakers, you have one minute left.
Nowhere near done.
Oh, no. This is awful.
At least four are gonna be different.
Hopefully that gets me at least
some brownie points.
No, it's not feathering well. Too thick.
The caramel at the bottom.
Ah.
Oh, my God! It's completely wrong. Ah!
These actually look kind of sick.
It's like Russian roulette.
Please pick the good one!
Oh, no!
Pui Man, just relax.
-I can't relax.
-Let them go.
-I can't watch.
-It's all too thick.
But I can't do anything about it.
It won't come out.
Okay, bakers, your time…
This is ridiculous.
…is… up.
-This is ridiculous.
-I'm sorry.
Please bring your hobnobs up to the front
and place them behind your photographs.
-Yours are beautiful.
-Thank you.
I'm the number 12.
-Toby smashed it.
-Toby.
Yeah, those are beautiful.
I will be at the bottom.
-Why? What happened?
-Look at my one.
Oh, my God. Just everything wrong.
It's hobnob judgement time.
Paul and Prue are expecting
12 perfectly crunchy oat biscuits
topped with deliciously smooth caramel
and delicately feathered chocolate.
And they'll have no idea whose is whose.
Start with this one, Prue?
Mmm.
They're all over the place.
Feathering hasn't worked.
That one's not bad,
and then the rest are awful.
At least it's crispy.
That is going to be really sweet.
I know it's quite difficult
to get thin caramel,
but it really is important
because that biscuit isn't very thick.
The bake on the hobnob is pretty good.
But they don't look good,
and the caramel is too thick.
Right. Shall we have a go at this one?
They're all odd shaped.
It's not very consistent, is it?
And too much caramel.
Tastes okay, but too much caramel
and the chocolate's all over the place.
How can you do
two centimetres of decoration
and try and feather that?
You'd need a machete.
It's everything. Caramel, biscuit.
Everything's too thick.
Mmm.
In fact, the caramel layer
is thicker than the biscuit.
Now there is feathering on this.
It's still not very delicate, though.
Now that's not too bad. Look,
that is a nice, thin layer of caramel.
It is. The balance between the three,
chocolate, caramel and biscuit, is good.
These are much more delicate.
But it's sort of been smeared.
It's not really feathered.
-It's thin, though.
-Really thin. I like that.
-That's the right proportion.
-Yeah.
There's three times
as much biscuit as caramel.
And then, about the same amount
of caramel as chocolate.
It's very nice. I like that one.
Okay. Now these look quite neat,
although the biscuit does look
quite thick.
It's cutting well.
Chocolate's quite thick on that.
It's not the caramel or the biscuit.
It's a bit uneven.
Because the biscuit is slightly domed,
the caramel is thick at the edges,
nice and thin in the middle.
They're good.
There's a lot of feathering here as well.
But look at the way they're rounded.
Let's see.
-Nice. I like that proportion.
-Mmm.
It's quite a chewy biscuit.
Oh, dear.
They're all over the place, aren't they?
Look how thick that caramel is.
It's the same thickness as a biscuit.
Nicely baked.
It is, but the appearance is not good.
Okay. Where are the rest of the biscuits?
Look at the chocolate. What?
You're kidding me.
They've been decorated in a mould,
haven't they?
That's why it's so thick.
It's like a millionaire's shortbread.
I can't see any caramel.
There must be some
under there somewhere, possibly.
These look really good. Very delicate.
And all matching.
All the caramel ones look as if
they've been baked by a machine.
They're absolutely perfect.
-Caramel looks perfect.
-Nice and thin.
-I think that's the perfect hobnob.
-It's nice.
Moving on to the last,
and maybe the least.
Erm, they've really tried
to be delicate, but…
I mean, I think it looks like a hurry.
-The biscuit's overbaked.
-Not the best.
Prue and Paul will now rank
the hobnobs from last to first place.
In 11th place, we have this one.
-Pui Man, what went wrong?
-Everything gone wrong.
-In tenth spot, we have this one.
-That's me.
Were you trying to pipe through a hose?
In ninth place, we have this one here.
They're very uneven.
Aaron is eighth,
Jessika seventh, Tom sixth,
Iain is fifth, and Jasmine is fourth.
And then in third place,
we've got these ones.
Nataliia, apart from the fact
that the caramel is not quite even,
they're nice biscuits.
In second spot, we have…
this one.
Nadia, really nice,
but just not as good as number one.
Which means our winner is Toby.
-Well done.
-Thank you.
They're very delicate.
The feathering is perfect.
Very uniform. Good job.
Thank you.
I'm absolutely buzzing.
Prue said it was the perfect hobnob,
which I will wear
as a badge of honour forever.
I read in the brief,
it said, "Don't use all the caramel".
And guess what I did?
Started off good and slowly descending.
I just need to make sure
that neatness is a priority tomorrow.
Try to practise tonight
and keep my place, hopefully.
Ugh! It's gonna get so hot.
I feel it getting hot already.
After today's spectacular Showstopper,
we'll crown Biscuit Week's Star Baker
and reveal who will have to leave
the Baking Show tent.
I have enjoyed Biscuit Week,
mainly for the biscuits.
It's been great.
Biscuit Week is one of my favourite weeks.
Also, you've come as a biscuit.
Look at your tan.
I have no idea where they're going
because they do something really well,
and then the next challenge,
they're going backward.
Think Leighton and Aaron
both had nice biscuits in the Signature.
But then in the Technical, he came eighth
and then Leighton ended up tenth.
The one I'm worried about is Pui Man.
She has to do really well
in the Showstopper,
and a few people have to do really badly,
and then she'll save herself.
Coming into the Showstopper,
I think Jasmine and Tom
are up there in line for Star Baker.
No handshakes, though, right?
Two weeks running.
What's that about?
I think my handshake is still on holiday,
to be honest.
How does it get home?
Just crawls like that?
It's like The Addams Family.
Hello, lovely bakers.
Welcome back to the tent.
And your Showstopper challenge
is all about time.
So the judges would like you to create
a biscuit time capsule.
Now your biscuit time capsule
should be highly decorated
and filled with at least
five edible mementoes.
We'll then go and bury them
at the back of the tent.
Then in a thousand years' time,
they'll dig them up,
and holograms of Paul and Prue
will judge them.
We're only joking.
They'll judge them in four hours.
-On your marks.
-Get set.
Bake… to the future, Marty!
Move fast but think a lot.
I'm gonna be short of time.
I just wanna do okay.
Middle of the road is absolutely fine.
I can do this.
Today's Showstopper challenge,
our bakers have to make a time capsule
with a minimum of five elements inside.
It's a memory box, essentially.
We don't want
just some boring cardboard box to look at.
The box itself needs to tell us
lovely stories.
Stability is critical.
Engineering skills, architectural skills,
artistic skills
to make the time capsule look amazing
is also integral to this challenge.
And the memories inside
have to be really exquisitely decorated.
We want to be able to think,
"Isn't that a perfect little teddy bear?"
or "Isn't that a wonderful violin?"
The time capsule
and all the elements inside
could actually be made
with one type of biscuit,
but I'd like to see
a little bit of diversity
to show off the skills of the bakers.
I'm looking for a surprise.
I want to think,
"My goodness, that's brave".
And then I want it to taste wonderful.
And I'd quite like it
to be witty and amusing.
Not much to ask.
Morning, Leighton.
-Good morning. How are you?
-Hi, Leighton.
Right. Tell us all
about your time capsule.
I am going to make a piano
from when I was growing up.
What, is it a grand piano
that goes like that?
It's not gonna be quite so grand.
Leighton's future in the competition
rests on a black gingerbread piano
containing shortbread memories
of his childhood love of maths
and one of the most sought-after items
in Britain.
I've got my Blue Peter badge
from when I was 11.
-You haven't got a Blue Peter badge?
-I have.
-Ah, how lovely.
-What did you do for that?
In those days, you'd save silver paper.
-Yeah, I remember.
-You could send it off.
I used to go round all the neighbours'
for months and months and months
collecting all the foil.
I did raise some money for Help the Aged.
-Aw, that's so lovely.
-Wow.
Leighton's not the only baker
preserving childhood memories.
Today we are making my granny's cottage.
Tom's cardamom spiced biscuit cottage
will store lemon cream-filled
brandy snap memories
of his grandad's cigars,
his love of breakfast cereal and fishing.
-So much going on.
-Today is a real fast-paced one.
If you were doing this at home,
how long would it take?
-A day.
-A day?
I'd just give myself a day
'cause things have to cool.
Honestly, it's the cooling.
Today,
it's gonna get very hot in the tent,
so my aim is to keep all the biscuits
as cold as possible.
It's called
"The Highland Holiday Time Capsule".
Basically, I've just moved down to London,
and I'm missing Scotland a lot.
Nestled in Jasmine's
gingerbread picnic basket
will be memories crafted
in three different flavours
of classic Scottish shortbread,
including thistles, mountains
and a Highland essential.
I'm making an umbrella
'cause it always rains in Scotland,
and I have so many happy memories
of it raining in Scotland.
As Jasmine,
Tom and Leighton roll back the years…
Nataliia only seems to be travelling back
to Cake Week.
My box will be like a slice of cake.
Nataliia's cake slice will slide open
to reveal memories
of her new life in the UK,
including macaron flowers
from her Yorkshire garden
and her daughter's teddy bear.
-So it's gonna pull out like a drawer?
-Yes, yes.
That's a lot of construction.
-Yeah.
-That's quite difficult. You practised it?
-Of course.
-And the drawer comes out all right?
Yes, yes.
In this heat, you've gotta be careful.
When it comes
to building with gingerbread…
Oh! Sticky.
…one baker may well have an advantage.
When my children was little,
I used to make
loads of gingerbread houses.
It's going to be a Jumbo Boat.
It's a Chinese restaurant in Hong Kong.
Pui Man plans to save herself
from a Biscuit Week exit
with a quadruple-tiered
gingerbread floating restaurant.
Inside, she'll use almond shortbread
to record a life in dressmaking
and create a framed portrait
of her parents, Annie and Kay-Kay.
Jumbo Boat was my favourite place.
We used to go there for Chinese New Year.
Unfortunately, it sunk.
Let's do this.
To keep their time capsule dreams afloat,
the bakers must have a well-baked biscuit
to construct with.
So that's two fronts and a side.
And whilst most have opted
for a sturdy gingerbread…
Let's chuck 'em in.
…some have gambled on something lighter.
It's gonna be a chocolate orange biscuit
which is a treasure chest shell
with chocolate orange ganache
and modelling chocolate decorations.
-Okay.
-And then inside,
obviously, I have a dog biscuit in there
-for my dog.
-Obviously.
As well as yet another
biscuit Bex the dog,
Toby will bake treasured memories
of family holidays,
including almond and cherry seashells
and playing cards.
Two times-winner of the Technical.
I know. They're calling me Techy Toby now.
Techy Toby? That's a perfect name for you.
I know.
So, things that you've tried and tested,
you're absolutely terrible at,
but give me something
I ain't done, I'll smash it.
-Thank you so much for pointing that out.
-Uplifting you.
I like the use of the words
"absolutely" and "terrible".
The Technical challenge is not
a memory that Aaron will be treasuring.
Doing three types of biscuit today,
so I have a lot to do.
Probably a bit ambitious,
but I'm conscious that I probably wasn't
in the best position after my Technical.
Aaron aims to survive beyond Biscuit Week
with Earl Grey shortbread memories
including his family cat, Zeus,
and university degree.
They'll be secured
in a yuzu sugar biscuit box
with a gingerbread bridge,
and decorated
with his favourite cherry blossom trees.
You're moving so fast.
So much to do, right?
I can't cope with Prue's
disappointed face any more. I can't do it.
-It's just that look of… how sad it is.
-"Aw, nearly. Nearly."
I know, like, "Aw, you tried".
Oh, so many pieces.
What have I done to myself?
Without baking
a huge number of construction pieces…
Now I'm about to do my bridge.
I'm just going to place it
inside this ring.
…Aaron, Pui Man and Leighton…
This is gonna be the struts
that will hold the keyboard up.
…won't be able to build their way
out of trouble.
This biscuit's quite soft,
so it has a tendency to move.
I'm just a bit behind at the minute.
But Prue and Paul have demanded more…
-Also gonna bake these handles.
-…from all of the bakers.
Aw, I need another baking tray.
-Another baking tray, please!
-I always need another baking tray.
Each time capsule must contain
at least five
exquisitely decorated biscuit memories.
-Do you want to help?
-No.
I'm just gonna finish
piping my Viennese biscuits
and my Viennese fish
for my fish and chips.
Lesley's buttercream-filled Viennese fish
and lemon shortbread chips and cupcake
will join gingerbread memories,
including trips to the seaside
with her two dogs.
This is Marley. He's a rescue dog.
He's absolutely crazy.
We took him for a walk,
and he found something
that he shouldn't have eaten.
We thought he was having seizures,
so we took him to the vet's, all worried.
Anyway, he'd gone and got himself stoned.
He'd found some weed, and he ate it.
So it cost me £200,
and he was in his bed like…
He was having the best time.
The vet thought it was hilarious too.
Yeah, Dog Marley.
I'm gonna do tomato macarons.
In Italy, we would get our picnic basket,
and we'd fill it with all
my nonna's homegrown tomatoes.
Nadia's tomatoes will be
sandwiched with white chocolate ganache
and Chantilly cream,
and will join her other memories
in a picnic basket made
from a delicate, Italian-inspired biscuit.
It's a sugar biscuit,
but it's got Limoncello,
a bit of fresh lemon.
That sounds good.
I was worried that the biscuit
wouldn't be strong enough,
but I'm just gonna make my box
a little bit thicker.
Bakers, you are halfway through.
For realsies?
I'm still feeling confident
that I'm gonna finish on time.
-It's getting tight.
-Mm.
Two hours. Two hours.
The bakers now face
attempting to perfect the bake
on their biscuit memories…
Don't know if I can do this.
…and beginning building the constructions
that will house them…
-About to do my bridge.
-…at the same time.
Chill, bake, chill, bake.
But construction can't begin for everyone.
For some reason, I've decided to
make this look exactly like their cottage.
This is the front panel.
I'm covering the biscuits in fondant,
so I wanna make sure I've got time
to set the fondant down
and then set up the box.
It's not cold.
Whilst Leighton's piano pieces
aren't cool enough to construct with,
Toby's treasure chest
is heading back to the oven.
So I've just put the base
and the two walls back in
'cause it's quite a soft biscuit.
I don't think it's a risk
of drying out too much.
This is a caramel
that's gonna act as a glue.
It's very difficult this part.
You have to be careful
'cause I haven't gone
for a really strong, sturdy biscuit.
So I'm just piping
the royal icing over the gingerbread
and then I'm gonna construct it.
This is true to colour.
They have this very funny pink paint
all over the house.
It's so scary.
It's not falling down.
The gingerbread for Nataliia's cake slice
is beginning to soften.
Why it's like this?
And she's not the only one struggling.
No!
My biscuit has snapped on the bridge.
Time is not on your side.
Oh, my gosh. I hope it's not falling down.
Fingers crossed.
I've split one of my sides. Oh, my God!
I'm losing the plot.
One side of my box broke.
I don't want to quickly make another side,
but I'm up against it.
Is that the bridge broke?
I can say that I've had calmer days.
Well, how much time did it need
when you was doing this at home?
-I think it was, like, eight hours.
-Eight hours?
How long have we got?
You have one hour left.
Gotta get this in the oven quickly.
I'm having a arty moment over here. Right.
Leighton still hasn't begun
constructing his time capsule.
Time is slipping away from me.
And whilst Aaron's is falling apart…
All the bits is done now.
…Pui Man's floating restaurant
could be ready to launch.
I'm not going home.
But it may not be
Biscuit Week's most ambitious Showstopper.
I'm making
stained-glass windows with isomalt.
Jessika's espresso
and chocolate gingerbread-framed windows
will be painted
with her favourite travel destinations,
and her lemon
and praline-filled shortbread memories
will include a memento
of her time on the Baking Show.
I'm making a selfie.
I thought that looked like you.
That's you.
And there's gonna be a surprise,
so hopefully when you tug it, she will…
Oh, right.
Iain is also set
on delivering a moving memory.
So this is going to be a record player,
and then I'm gonna have a turntable
which is hopefully going to turn.
Iain's gingerbread record player
will spin memories,
including a lemon and pistachio
shortbread reminder of holidays in Sicily.
You press the button,
and it turns on and starts rotating.
Now the bakers will need to rotate
between completing their structures…
Phew! You gotta concentrate, right?
If this breaks, that's it.
…and filling and decorating
the biscuit memories to go inside.
Just block everyone else out.
Concentrate. You know what you're doing.
Concentrate? I am concentrating.
You need to leave me alone first.
Right, we're trying to roll these
brandy snaps while they're roasting hot.
Not too hot.
Just filling my macarons.
Little bit behind schedule.
In a last-ditch attempt
to try and impress Prue,
I'm putting prosecco in the jam as well.
I used to work in a pub and the rule was,
when you open a bottle of prosecco,
it should sound like a lady's fart.
Very polite.
Forty-five minutes remaining.
It's quite a slow process this.
-This is very exquisite.
-Thank you.
-Are you all right?
-Yeah. You can hold me later.
My Blue Peter boat.
Oh, this is such a mess.
This dog looks like
some sort of zombie underdog.
This is the new side I baked.
I can't let this one crack.
I'm just using some
Sakura cherry-flavoured buttercream.
There's still quite a bit to do.
In the photo frame
will be picture of my parents.
I used edible paper.
This picture was taken
before my dad had a stroke.
So… I miss them.
I miss them so much.
I'm going to finish on time.
Leighton, how's it going?
You look a little bit stressed.
-Yeah. I am, darling. I am.
-Why? Why?
Everything's taken much longer
than normal.
I can live without
the extra detail on the box
if I can just get the top done.
This one is supposed to be a tape measure.
Babes, we're not allowed
this stuff on the floor.
-Do you want to just hold it for a sec?
-I'm gonna try…
I'll hold it.
How long have we got?
Half an hour left.
-No chance.
-Is it gonna go down to the wire?
Hopefully not.
How long do you want me
to hold this for, Leighton?
Oh, er…
-Put it on my chair.
-Okay.
Please don't break.
Oh, no. Jessika, don't do that.
It's not falling down.
Just bunging a little caramel here
to stick the roof.
-How long do we have left?
-Ten minutes left.
I wish time just didn't actually
exist here.
Keep going.
I can't take the suspense.
-It's so quiet in here.
-I know.
I don't know if I can multitask enough
to talk while piping.
Stay on, girl.
Don't fall. Please don't fall.
So I drew out my stencils.
And then I'm gonna paint on top,
and then the vodka
that mixes with the food gel
actually dries quite quickly.
Some flower in the box.
No!
It's so hot in here.
Dumb bridge.
It's like it's condemned.
I'm gonna put little stalks on top
and make them into a vine.
Just a bit.
-How long've we got, a minute?
-One minute left. Come on.
Last minute. Last minute.
Quick, quick, quick. Quick, quick, quick.
Just like that.
They are loosely decorated.
It's just to get something on them.
Your time is up.
Oh, no.
-My God. Oh, I'm done.
-It looks stunning.
I'm so going home this week.
It's judgement time
in Biscuit Week's Showstopper challenge.
Jessika, we are ready
for your biscuit time capsule.
Jessika, tell us about your time capsule.
I made a stained-glass window structure
showcasing places I've travelled
and places I've lived.
I'm really impressed.
I thought you'd bitten off
much more than you'd be able to chew.
-I did.
-The piping is very good.
Colours are good. It's very intricate.
I think we should try the box.
It should be a espresso
and chocolate gingerbread.
It's quite hard work.
-It's quite chewy.
-Okay.
Inside, it's a selfie of me
in the Bake Off.
Pull at the bottom, she should…
So clever, Jessika.
I'm not gonna break that one.
So that is shells from when I travelled.
So it's shortbread with peanut praline.
-Peanuts in there works well.
-It's a nice biscuit, too.
Mmm. It's well-baked.
Jessika, I think you've really achieved
something delightful.
In my 16 years of being in the tent,
I've never seen anyone
quite like that before.
Oh, don't!
It worked once, and I'll take it!
It's basic. It's a box.
But you can see what it is.
-Yeah.
-And it is moving, which is very good.
The box is just a gingerbread.
It's a bit tough. Flavour's good.
So that's a lemon biscuit
with a pistachio.
I love that. That's very lemony.
And the biscuit melts in your mouth.
I think the overall design
looks very clever. Quite artistic.
-What's that biscuit?
-Gingerbread.
The blend of the spices and everything
is very, very good.
And then your dogs?
They're gingerbread as well.
That's Viennese biscuits
with a vanilla bean buttercream.
Very good Viennese.
-Melt-in-the-mouth Viennese.
-Mmm.
-I think it's lacking a bit of finesse.
-I agree.
-Yes, I didn't bake it long enough.
-Right.
So it's a gingerbread box.
The gingerbread is delicious.
Spice level's good.
It actually is a maths protractor.
Okay.
-That's the Blue Peter badge.
-That's my Blue Peter badge.
That's very soft.
You can see that it's wet.
-Needed longer in the oven.
-Okay.
I think the box is exquisite.
Just looks amazing.
It really is beautifully done.
Can I lift it by the handle?
Hopefully.
Nope.
Maybe not.
Oh, my goodness. Look at that.
They look beautiful,
the way you've iced them.
I might take a bit of the handle.
The perfect ginger biscuit.
-Mm.
-Beautifully spiced. Not too much.
Let's try a little bit of the mountain.
-Just remind me?
-Milk chocolate and hazelnut.
They're delicious.
It's baked to perfection.
Mm!
Then there's the white chocolate
and raspberry.
It's a blinder.
I think your future could be in biscuits.
Yeah.
Nataliia, do you wanna bring up
your biscuit time capsule?
Sorry about that.
Oh, my gosh.
I was concerned
when you told me what you were doing,
that it was gonna be difficult.
It's a gingerbread with orange.
It's quite soft. You underbaked the box.
-Yeah.
-Let's see what there is.
This is my flower and my bear.
Macarons with ganache with orange.
-Mmm.
-It's a nice macaron.
Thank you.
-Tricky to do a macaron like that.
-It's all quite complicated.
You set yourself
a really high bar to jump.
Nadia, I think your box is really elegant.
I flavoured my box
with orange and Limoncello.
I like the flavour. It's nice and crisp.
I love the tomatoes.
They are white chocolate,
and then, a Chantilly cream.
-Very good macarons.
-The flavours all go together.
They're spot on. And the bake is good.
-I think it looks terrific.
-Looks amazing.
It's chocolate orange biscuit
with a chocolate orange ganache.
-It tastes quite dry.
-Yeah.
-Very dry.
To try and give it a bit more structure,
I twice baked the biscuit.
It doesn't taste nice either.
Thank you.
-There's Bex.
-That's his dog.
Now that looks like a dog.
That is a leaky playing card.
It's almond shortbread
with cherry and prosecco jam.
I found the almond one boring,
and it's not quite baked enough.
This is a classic example
of style over substance.
Mm-hmm.
Aaron, it's time for your Showstopper.
Tell us about your Showstopper.
This is sugar in spring.
Where I'm from, Stoke-on-Trent,
there's quite a lot
of cherry blossom trees.
-I think it's quite clumsy.
-It's not finished.
-No.
-It's a shame about the bridge.
The box is yuzu sugar cookie.
Great flavour.
I think, if anything,
it's a tiny bit hard.
-Okay.
-Let's have a look inside.
What the hell is that?
Were you rushing at the end?
-Yeah, I was rushing.
-This all the same biscuit?
It's all Earl Grey shortbread
and yuzu jelly.
-What is that?
-A scroll.
-His scroll.
-That's a scroll.
Let me see.
That ain't no scroll.
But I must say, that Earl Grey biscuit
is simply delicious.
The texture's lovely, the flavour's great.
-Good.
-The biscuit's amazing.
I mean, they look awful.
I was happy with the baking,
but everything else, not very.
-Yeah. Thanks, Aaron.
-Thanks, guys.
Pui Man, would you like to bring up
your Showstopper, please?
Pui Man, tell us
all about your time capsule.
I made Jumbo Boat restaurant
with gingerbread biscuits.
It's a mighty impressive
looking structure.
It's tall, it's stable.
It's exquisitely put together.
Clever.
Really, really good.
-Wow.
-That looks good.
Beautiful gingerbread.
-Spot on with the flavour and the bake.
-Very good.
-Thank you.
-Pui Man, that's excellent.
-Ooh.
-Oh, isn't that beautiful?
-Wow.
-It's my mum and dad.
-Your mum and dad?
-Yeah, I miss them so much.
They're still in Hong Kong. Yeah.
-Love the design on that.
-Thank you.
The frame is very good.
The bake is very good.
I always have tape measure in my handbag.
Fabulous.
This is almond shortbread.
Hmm. That's been baked beautifully.
-Oh, thank you.
-Lovely taste as well.
I think you've done
a really good job with this.
You have baked something original,
quite difficult, complicated,
and you've pulled off every element of it.
-Terrific. Well done.
-Oh, thank you.
-Thank you.
-Well done.
Tom, would you like to bring up
your Showstopper, please?
Aw.
I think it is faultless.
It is. It's exceptional.
When we saw the photograph
of the one that you did earlier,
I thought,
"That's just a photograph of a cottage."
It is a cardamom gingerbread
inspired by my Danish granny.
The cardamom biscuit in there,
it's just spot on. It's delicious.
-Beautiful.
-It's tricky to get that right.
It's just baked beautifully as well.
-Mm. That's perfect, that.
-Texture's incredible.
-This is 'cause you like fishing, is it?
-Love fishing, yeah.
Made of a chocolate,
orange zest digestive.
That's a beautiful biscuit.
Crunchy, nice flavour.
-I'll have a bit of your cigar.
-Have a smoke.
Yeah. That one should be lemon cream.
And what's in the cereal bowl?
Peanut vanilla whipped cream.
I'm really impressed with that
because all the baking
is absolutely perfect.
I love your textures, and your flavours,
and your design
are pretty much untouchable.
-In everything you've done.
-Oh, stop it.
Thank you so much.
Just wild.
-Congratulations.
-So good.
You've been graced
by the hand of Paul Hollywood.
I didn't really know
they happened in Showstoppers.
More than anything, I was just so happy
to hear Pui Man's feedback
because she has definitely felt
the stress this week.
Yeah, so, very happy.
-Well done, Pui Man. That was brilliant.
-Thank you.
I just sit there and say,
"How do they do it in the time?"
I produce a piano
that looks like it's derelict.
I'd like to think
that my flavours were enough, but
I just don't know.
Is that the most biscuits
you've ever eaten in one sitting?
Sixty-six mouthfuls.
A round of applause for these two.
They were brilliant.
Well done. We're so impressed.
Tom got a handshake.
Yeah, Tom was amazing.
All the different techniques.
It wasn't just one biscuit.
For me, for Star Baker,
it's between Tom and Jasmine.
And Pui Man was good as well.
Her Showstopper was faultless.
-But she had a terrible day yesterday.
-I know.
-So which ones are in trouble?
-I think Aaron.
I don't know what happened
in the Showstopper. He didn't finish.
I think Leighton. I do think Pui Man
can't be dismissed quickly.
I think that Toby's in the bottom.
Yeah. And yet, he won the Technical.
Basically, what you're saying is,
everyone could go home.
-Yeah.
-What about Alison?
Well, I think we can throw her
in the mix as well.
Congratulations, bakers.
What a week we've had on Biscuit Week.
But I get the job
of announcing Star Baker.
This week's Star Baker is…
"T" to the "O" to the "M". Yes, Tom!
Aw, that means
that I've got the horrible job
of announcing
who's going to be leaving us.
But I just want to say that it was
a very tough decision for the judges.
But the person
who is leaving us this week is…
Leighton.
Sorry.
Thank you.
-Leighton.
-I'm so sorry.
It's all right.
I know, I know.
But someone had to go, right?
You've got to go and smash it.
I've had the most fun. I've loved it.
I mean, I've had the opportunity,
and then I come up
against these amazing bakers.
I was really upset
when I heard Leighton's name
'cause you don't want people to go home,
especially when you think
that maybe it should have been you.
Oh, mate!
Well done, Tom.
Hey, Pui Man!
I was really prepared to go.
But I'm very happy.
Unfortunately, everyone
needs to watch me again.
Congratulations.
Hey, gorgeous. How are you doing?
I'm just ringing to tell you
that I got Star Baker.
Shut up! You did not!
I did!
We made it to week three.
You didn't just make it to week three.
Are you looking forward to Bread Week?
No.